[MUSIC]
In this lecture, we'll talk
a little bit more about variables.
Variables are key,
variables just like in algebra.
You need variables to write code and
we'll talk about variables and
how they can be defined and
what they mean.
So variables, they're basically names
that represent values in a program.
Similar to algebraic variables, so
just like in algebra, x equals 5,
x equals y plus 2.
You have these variables, x, y.
They're names that are substitutes for
certain values.
All variables have a type,
which must be declared.
So type is an important concept in C and
in most languages.
The type of a variable tells you,
basically,
it intuitively tells you what
kind of data it is going to hold.
So for instance here, I say, int x.
I'm saying, x is gonna be an integer,
int is short for integer.
Or I say, float y, I'm saying,
y is gonna be a floating point number.
So, I'm telling you what type of
information is going to be held in that
variable?
Now the type is important, because it
determines how arithmetic is performed and
it determines how much memory is going
to be used to store the variable.
Because remember, all of these variables
have to be stored in memory somewhere.
And so
the question is with a variable like x,
how many bytes of space do we
need to store that information?
And with y, how many bytes of information?
Cuz the machine when it's running,
it has to store it,
it has to know how big it's going to be.
So that's what the declarations are for.
If you say, int x, oh,
x is gonna be the size of an integer,
whatever that is on your machine.
A standard 32 bit machine
the integer is gonna be 4 bytes.
Depends on the processor, but
4 bytes is standard for a 32-bit machine.
Floating point might be eight bites
something like that or I can't remember.
Maybe eight, maybe four, maybe eight, but
there are fixed sizes depending
on the machine for each type.
So one thing that type lets you know
is how much memory is gonna be needed?
But also the type tells you,
how arithmetic will be performed?
So arithmetic is performed differently
depending on the type of data.
So, integer.
If you have an integer type and you want
to do addition, everybody knows how to do
integer addition, but floating point
addition is a much more complicated thing.
So if you wanna do floating point
addition, actually what happens inside
the hardware, inside the microprocessor
is there's often a floating point unit,
a dedicated piece of hardware, just
there to do floating point operations.
And it is separate than the integer
operators, so you'll have an integer ALU,
arithmetic logic unit,
which performs integer addition and
then you'll have some floating point unit
that does floating point operations.
And so depending on the type,
you're going to have to send that data to
a different piece of hardware to do
the operations that need to be performed.
Although floating point division is a
whole other thing, you gotta a speculative
dividing point, which is definitely
different than a same energy divide.
So that's why typing is needed.
You need to know what type and all
the variables are gonna be and so in C,
you have to declare the type.
So before you use a variable,
you have to declare it.
So before you can use x in your program,
you have to say int x; somewhere or
float y; something like that.
So that's what variables are,
you've gotta declare them in C.
Now so there are several built in types,
here are the main ones
we're gonna look at.
Char, int, float and double.
Really, we're gonna focus
on probably char and int.
When it comes to embedded systems, we
try to avoid floats and doubles, because
floating point arithmetic and double worth
or double is double precision point.
It's slower and bigger, so
we try to avoid them in general.
Sometimes you need it,
but try to avoid them.
So an int is typically whatever the word
size is, but it could be down to 16.
So for instance with an Arduino,
I believe an int is 16 bits, but a char.
No matter what platform you're using,
a char is only 1 byte.
That's just a standard size.
So actually, it's very useful.
It's nice.
When I'm coding, you use a char and
you always know what you're gonna get.
So, I often use a char by default.
But floating point and double,
they can be 64 bits, 128.
They can be much longer.
Now variables all have names, they have
to have names associated with them.
It's just a sequence of visible
characters, there are some limits.
For instance, it has to start
with a non-numerical character.
So you can have int testvar1,
that's legal, cuz it starts with a t.
But you can't have int of 1testvar,
because it starts with a 1.
So that's not legal.
You can't have any variable
names that are C keywords.
If, else, while, that sort of thing.
So there are so limits on variable names,
but you have wide discretion in
what your names are going to be.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]